BOM.md, before:

# Bill of Materials

| Qty. | Item                                            | Image                                         | Description                                                  | Link                                                         | Price            |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- |
| 1    | [Laser pointer](./BOM/laser_pointer.md)         | ![](./BOM/assets/laser.jpg)                   | GALDOEP 650nm 5mW red laser diode module 3-5V                | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B09J3TB26H)                | 9.99€ (3  units) |
| 1    | [Nerf](./BOM/nerf.md)                           | ![](./BOM/assets/nerf_stryfe.jpg)             | Nerf Modulus Stryfe                                          | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B072PYD365)        | 42.07€           |
| 1    | Nano                                            | ![](./BOM/assets/arduino_nano.jpg)            | AZDelivery AZ-Nano V3-Board w/ Atmega328 CH340               | [Amazon]()                                                   | 21.99€ (3 units) |
| 1    | Battery                                         | ![](./BOM/assets/battery.jpg)                 | OVONIC LiPo 3S 5000mAh 50C 11.1V with XT connector           | [Amazon]()                                                   | 39.99€           |
| 1    | [DC-DC Buck converter](./BOM/buck_converter.md) | ![](./BOM/assets/buck_converter.jpg)          | ICQUANZX DC-DC 5A 5-32V input to 0.8-24V output              | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B07VQ89RZG)                | 21.99€ (3 units) |
| 1    | Linear actuator                                 | ![](./BOM/assets/linear_actuator.jpg)         | ETOPAR 12V linear actuator for car door locking              | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B08NG6LTY2)        | 16.79€ (4 units) |
| 1    | Structure                                       | ![](./BOM/assets/structure.jpg)               | CNCMANS 4 x 300mm EU2020-T anodized aluminium profiles with angle brackets and 50 M5 nuts | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B0BX648N6P)                | 22.00€ (1kit)    |
| 2    | Motor and wheel kit                             | ![](./BOM/assets/motor_encoder_wheel_kit.jpg) | 12V motor encoder and wheel kit (130rpm)                     | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B07WT22RNK)                | 23.92€           |
| 1    | USB flat cable 100mm                            | ![](./BOM/assets/usb_cable.jpg)               | Straight USB (AMST) to straight Mini USB (V3ST)              | [Aliexpress](https://es.aliexpress.com/item/1005002551406991.html?spm=a2g0n.order_detail.order_detail_item.3.578739d32xzMxK&gatewayAdapt=glo2esp) | 6,91€(2 units)   |
| 1    | Raspberry Pi 5                                  |                                               |                                                              |                                                              |                  |

## 3D printed parts

Laser pointer holder 

https://grabcad.com/library/nerf-laserpointer-2-0-1

Nerf rail:

https://grabcad.com/library/nerf-rail-modelled-after-a-stryfe-1

Power door lock motor (12V car door actuator)

https://grabcad.com/library/power-door-lock-motor-1

Buck converter (LM2596 is similar)

https://grabcad.com/library/buck-converter-lm2596-1

Simon robot: https://github.com/simonllopez/mini_robot_hw 

( see https://esimonsite.com/proyectos/mini_robot/)

Commit message:

OLED screen and base plate v2

BOM.md, after:

# Bill of Materials

| Qty. | Item                                            | Image                                         | Description                                                  | Link                                                         | Price            |
| ---- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- |
| 1    | [Laser pointer](./BOM/laser_pointer.md)         | ![](./BOM/assets/laser.jpg)                   | GALDOEP 650nm 5mW red laser diode module 3-5V                | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B09J3TB26H)                | 9.99€ (3  units) |
| 1    | [Nerf](./BOM/nerf.md)                           | ![](./BOM/assets/nerf_stryfe.jpg)             | Nerf Modulus Stryfe                                          | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B072PYD365)        | 42.07€           |
| 1    | Nano                                            | ![](./BOM/assets/arduino_nano.jpg)            | AZDelivery AZ-Nano V3-Board w/ Atmega328 CH340               | [Amazon]()                                                   | 21.99€ (3 units) |
| 1    | Battery                                         | ![](./BOM/assets/battery.jpg)                 | OVONIC LiPo 3S 5000mAh 50C 11.1V with XT connector           | [Amazon]()                                                   | 39.99€           |
| 1    | [DC-DC Buck converter](./BOM/buck_converter.md) | ![](./BOM/assets/buck_converter.jpg)          | ICQUANZX DC-DC 5A 5-32V input to 0.8-24V output              | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B07VQ89RZG)                | 21.99€ (3 units) |
| 1    | Linear actuator                                 | ![](./BOM/assets/linear_actuator.jpg)         | ETOPAR 12V linear actuator for car door locking              | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B08NG6LTY2)        | 16.79€ (4 units) |
| 1    | Structure                                       | ![](./BOM/assets/structure.jpg)               | CNCMANS 4 x 300mm EU2020-T anodized aluminium profiles with angle brackets and 50 M5 nuts | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B0BX648N6P)                | 22.00€ (1kit)    |
| 2    | Motor and wheel kit                             | ![](./BOM/assets/motor_encoder_wheel_kit.jpg) | 12V motor encoder and wheel kit (130rpm)                     | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B07WT22RNK)                | 23.92€           |
| 1    | USB flat cable 100mm                            | ![](./BOM/assets/usb_cable.jpg)               | Straight USB (AMST) to straight Mini USB (V3ST)              | [Aliexpress](https://es.aliexpress.com/item/1005002551406991.html?spm=a2g0n.order_detail.order_detail_item.3.578739d32xzMxK&gatewayAdapt=glo2esp) | 6,91€(2 units)   |
| 1    | Raspberry Pi 4B 4Mb                             |                                               | Raspberry Pi 4B 4Mb                                          |                                                              |                  |
| 1    | [OLED](./BOM/OLED.md)                           | ![](./BOM/assets/OLED.jpg)                    | SSD1306 0.96" OLED display                                   | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B09GVTRB2W)                | 10.99€ (3 units) |

## 3D printed parts

Laser pointer holder 

https://grabcad.com/library/nerf-laserpointer-2-0-1

Nerf rail:

https://grabcad.com/library/nerf-rail-modelled-after-a-stryfe-1

Power door lock motor (12V car door actuator)

https://grabcad.com/library/power-door-lock-motor-1

Buck converter (LM2596 is similar)

https://grabcad.com/library/buck-converter-lm2596-1

Simon robot: https://github.com/simonllopez/mini_robot_hw 

( see https://esimonsite.com/proyectos/mini_robot/)

### Base plate 

#### Version 2 printed 10/12/23

![](./BOM/assets/base_plate_v2.png)

3D printing took 12h 8' in low quality, 140g after scaling in z to 75% to reduce to 3mm thickness.

Lessons learned: 

* 3mm thickness is enough. Perhaps 4mm is good only where the fixing screws attach the plate to the frame
* 4 screws are enough to fix the plate. Ideally use 10mm M5 screws with phillips or internal hex head and one washer 
* Make open slots instead of holes for ease of installation. 5mm holes are too tight in practice, try 5.2mm
* make raised flanges in the corners of the plate to facilitate aligning the plate to the frame

Next steps: 

* position elements in the plate and holes to fix them.
* make modifications to FreeCAD model
