Simulation.md, before:

# Simulation

Spawn the robot


```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 launch sevillabot rsp.launch.py use_sim_time:=true
```

Launch gazebo

```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 launch sevillabot launch_sim.launch.py
```

<img src="./assets/sevillabot_in_Gazebo.png" style="zoom: 33%;" />

Teleop with keyboard

```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 run teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard
```

Display in RVIZ

```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 launch sevillabot display.launch.py
```

<img src="./assets/sevillabot_in_RVIZ.png" style="zoom: 33%;" />

## Exporting a FreeCAD assembly to STL

Issue: Body placement is not respected when exporting an assembly as STL.
Workaround (see https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12278):

1. Move all the items you want to export to a Part
2. Go to the Mesh Workbench
3. Create a Mesh from the Part
4. Export those meshes as STL

To maintain local origin, copy the Part to root axes then export this copy of the part

Issue: cannot export to DAE format (missing pycollada error message)

## Adding a mesh to URDF

Place meshes in `meshes` folder, modify to `CMakeLists.txt` to install this directory 

Use `filename="file://$(find sevillabot)/..."` for path

Note: need to scale when importing (FreeCAD units are mm, Gazebo units are m)

```xml
<mesh filename="file://$(find sevillabot)/meshes/ASSY_sevillabot_base.stl" scale="1.0e-3 1.0e-3 1.0e-3"/>
```

## To Do

- [x] add wheels mesh
- [x] add caster mesh
- [x] align height of caster
- [x] measure and correct position of wheels
- [ ] is collision between wheels and chassis a problem?
- [ ] adjust angle of lidar
- [ ] measure and correct CoGs, masses, inertias

Commit message:

Fine tune Simulation
* In `properties.xacro` fix bug: `W_z` (wheel axis z-offset in m) = 0.02
  (not 0.025, otherwise wheels are out of their axes!)
  Confirmed that this matches FreeCAD reference frame displacement.
* Modify `launch_sim.launch.py`to load `sevillabot_world.world` as default
  world for gazebo simulation
* Add default RVIZ config `display_bot.rviz`
* In `camera.xacro`:
   - modify horizontal FOV to 160 degrees.
   - since camera is small, remove <collision> and <inertial> tags.
* Update `Camera.md` with camera properties
* In `Simulation.md` add notes for teleop with joystick and all changes above

Simulation.md, after:

# Simulation

## Quick start

1. Spawn the robot


```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 launch sevillabot rsp.launch.py use_sim_time:=true
```

2. Launch gazebo

```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 launch sevillabot launch_sim.launch.py
```

<img src="./assets/sevillabot_in_Gazebo.png" style="zoom: 33%;" />

3. Display in RVIZ

```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 launch sevillabot display.launch.py
```

<img src="./assets/sevillabot_in_RVIZ.png" style="zoom: 33%;" />

4. Teleop with keyboard

```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 run teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard
```

or,  Teleop with gamepad (plugged to PC)

```bash
$ cd ~/dev_ws/
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 launch sevillabot joystick.launch.py
```

## Exporting a FreeCAD assembly to STL

Issue: Body placement is not respected when exporting an assembly as STL.
Workaround (see https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12278):

1. Move all the items you want to export to a Part
2. Go to the Mesh Workbench
3. Create a Mesh from the Part
4. Export those meshes as STL

To maintain local origin, copy the Part to root axes then export this copy of the part

Issue: cannot export to DAE format (missing pycollada error message)

## Adding a mesh to URDF

Place meshes in `meshes` folder, modify to `CMakeLists.txt` to install this directory 

Use `filename="file://$(find sevillabot)/..."` for path

Note: need to scale when importing (FreeCAD units are mm, Gazebo units are m)

```xml
<mesh filename="file://$(find sevillabot)/meshes/ASSY_sevillabot_base.stl" scale="1.0e-3 1.0e-3 1.0e-3"/>
```

## Fine tuning

* In `properties.xacro` fix `W_z` (wheel axis z-offset in m) = 0.02 (not 0.025, otherwise wheels are out of their axes!) Checked it matches FreeCAD reference frame displacement.
* modified `launch_sim.launch.py`to load `sevillabot_world.world` as default world for gazebo simulation
* Added default RVIZ config `display_bot.rviz`
* In `camera.xacro` modify horizontal FOV to 160 degrees. Since camera is small, remove <collision> and <inertial> tags. 
* Update `Camera.md` with camera properties
* in `Simulation.md` add notes for all changes above

## To Do

- [x] add wheels mesh
- [x] add caster mesh
- [x] align height of caster
- [x] measure and correct position of wheels
- [ ] is collision between wheels and chassis a problem?
- [ ] adjust angle of lidar
- [ ] measure and correct CoGs, masses, inertias
